# February 7th Reading

## Genesis 1

- What is meant by 'waters' in the context of 1:6-8? If there is supposed to be
waters above and below the sky, does it just mean non-rigid matter (gases and
liquids)?

- In 1:3, God creates light. But then later, in 1:16, God then creates the
lights (Sun and Moon) again. Is this a sort of consolidation of light?

- In 1:26, the text uses the pronoun 'us' when he creates humankind. Why is
'us' used and not some other pronoun? Or no pronoun at all?

- In 1:28 we are told to 'subdue' the earth and have 'dominion' over the plants
and animals. What does this entail? That we should protect and care for them
or reap them?

- In 1:29 it sounds like animals shouldn't eat other animals...

## Genesis 2

- It seems to me that 2:4 starts a flashback to the sixth day to talk more in
detail about creation. The naming of the animals appears to be an explanation
for the 'dominion' mentioned earlier.

- Why was it necessary to state that the man and woman were naked and felt no
shame in 2:25? It doesn't seem to fit.

## Genesis 3

- Perhaps the nakedness without shame was mentioned for the sake of 3:7 when
the fruit opened their eyes.

- Does the curse in 3:14 imply that snakes used to have legs?

- In 3:16, what does, 'your desire shall be for your husband,' mean?

- 3:18-19 continues to make it seem as though we should only each plants.

- Why does God not want man to eat from the Tree of Life an become immortal?

## Genesis 4

- After Cain kills Abel, is this when humans started eating meat? Since it
appears that Cain will no longer be able to farm. Does that imply eating meat
is sinful?

- In 4:17 where did Cain's wife come from? She is not named. Is this
incestuous?

- 4:26 states, 'At that time people began to invoke the name of the Lord.'
Does this mean people started asking God for things? Because people must have
been aware/praising God because Cain and Abel gave offerings.

## Genesis 5

- In 5:24 it says, 'Enoch walked with God; then he was no more, because God
took him.' Is there a reason for the break in pattern here? Before and after,
the others lived substantially longer and they 'died', they did not 'walk
with God.'

## Genesis 6

## Genesis 7

- In chapter 6, God requests two of every kind of animal. But in 7:2, he
requests seven pairs of clean animals and one pair of unclean.

- In the previous chapter, God limited the lifespan to 120 years, yet Noah is
still living after 600 years?

## Genesis 8

- How was the dove able to pluck an olive leaf in 8:11 if the flood was meant
to kill all living things on the earth? Perhaps it was only animals and they
were only meant to bring and the plants were for food.

- In 8:20 Noah 'took of' every clean animal and bird for his offering. Does
this mean he killed them? If so, wouldn't there no longer be any animals?

## Genesis 9

- It appears now that humans were not allowed to eat meat until after the
Flood as animals were granted as food in 9:3.

- I really do not understand 9:5.

- Is 9:6 the institution of capital punishment?

- Why did Noah get so angry with Ham in 9:25? I understand that seeing his
nakedness was sinful, but was it not Noah who caused the event to occur?
Surely there was no way Ham could've avoided the situtation. Perhaps the
reason is how he told his brothers? Maybe he was making fun?

## Genesis 10

- 10:31 mentions the existence of languages. I was under the impression that
there was a single language prior to the Tower of Babel incident.

## Genesis 11

- Sure enough, 11:1 says the whole Earth had a single language. Was chapter
10 going forward in time past the Tower of Babel incident?

- Why was it wrong that people would be able to do whatever they set their
mind to? Is aspiration sinful?

- It is awfully confusing when the names refer to both places and people...
